## Parallelizing-long-read-de-novo-genome-assemblers-on-mixed-architectures-CPU-GPU

The computational challenge of de novo genome assembly (when no reference genome is available) is a hard one to tackle,when millions to billions of short reads must be assembled into contigs and further into scaffolds. Current de novo aligners (one can cite SGA, Spades, Velvet, ABySS or SOAPdenovo) try their best at finding overlaps between reads or building De Bruijn graphs on k-mers, but doing so on relatively large genomes (say,over tens or hundreds of megabases) requires both huge amounts of available RAM and CPU cycles. The very large number (in the millions or billions) of reads now routinely generated by Next-Generation Sequencing jobs (e.g. on Illumina MiSeq, HiSeq and NovaSeq) has rendered virtually intractable the OLC (overlap layout consensus) methods, which were clearly superseded by De Bruijn graph-based methods. Since the advent of GPU-based computing (where vast arrays of individually slower graphical processors are available, but with high bandwidth to main memory and high parallelism), some avenues have been explored very recently for the acceleration ofDe Bruijn-based (Arioc, 2018) or OLC-based (GRASShopPER,2018) assembly methods on mixed architectures (CPU + GPU).
        
The advent of long-read sequencing technologies (Oxford Nanopore and Pacific Biosciences) brought some disruption in the landscape, and it is now possible to generate reads whose length extends over the tens or hundreds of kilobases (the current record being around 2.4MB for one read). This gives a new youth to OLC methods, and there is now the hope that such OLC methods (which were in full use at the time of the construction of the first reference human genome, based on Sanger sequencing reads) would give better accuracy than graph-based methods on long reads. The problem of their computational tractability, though, still needs to be addressed properly, and could benefit greatly from the most recent mixed architectures and software stacks enabling developers to produce accelerated code.

In this project, we will explore the development of new algorithms for accelerated long-read de novo assembly on GPU architectures.
